feat(genapi): init docs (#3636)
scaleway/docs-content: ai-data/generative-apis/api-cli/using-chat-api.mdx

---
meta:
  title: Using Chat API
  description: This page explains how to use the Chat API to query models
content:
  h1: Using Chat API
  paragraph: This page explains how to use the Chat API to query models
tags: generative-apis ai-data chat-api
dates:
  validation: 2024-09-03
  posted: 2024-09-03
---

Scaleway Generative APIs are designed as a drop-in replacement for the OpenAI APIs. If you have an LLM-driven application that uses one of OpenAI's client libraries, you can easily configure it to point to Scaleway Chat API, and get your existing applications running using open-weight instruct models hosted at Scaleway.

## Create chat completion

> Creates a model response for the given chat conversation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following command to create a model response for the given chat conversation:
```

Reviewer 2: Not sure. Usually each API method is introduced by a short descriptive sentence about what it does. It wasn't meant to be an action for the user. I can add another line for this purpose if you think we need one before the CURL that follows.

```
curl --request POST \
     --url https://api.scaleway.ai/v1/chat/completions \
     --header 'Authorization: Bearer ${SCW_SECRET_KEY}' \
     --header 'Content-Type: application/json'
     --data '{
     "model": "llama-3.1-8b-instruct",
     "messages": [
      {
        "role": "system",
        "content": "<string>"
      },
      {
        "role": "user",
        "content": "<string>"
      }
     ],

>      "max_tokens": float,

Reviewer 3: `max_tokens` should be an integer

     "temperature": float,
     "top_p": float,
     "presence_penalty": float,
     "stop": "<string>",
     "stream": boolean,
     }'
```

## Headers

> Find required headers in [this page](/generative-apis/api-cli/using-generative-apis/)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Find required headers in [this page](/generative-apis/api-cli/using-generative-apis/).
```

## Body

### Required parameters

| Param  | Type | Description |
| ------------- |-------------|-------------|
| **messages***     | array of objects     | A list of messages comprising the conversation so far.     |
| **model***      | string     | The name of the model to query.     |

Our chat API is OpenAI compatible. Use OpenAI’s [API reference](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/chat/create) for more detailed information on the usage.

### Supported parameters

- temperature
- top_p
- max_tokens
- stream
- presence_penalty
- logprobs
- stop
- seed

### Unsupported parameters

- response_format
- frequency_penalty
- n
- top_logprobs
- tools
- tool_choice
- logit_bias
- user

> If you have a use case requiring one of these unsupported parameters, please [contact us via Slack](https://slack.scaleway.com/).

Reviewer: Maybe specify the name of the Slack channel?

<Message type="note">

>   To go further, [find here Python code examples](/ai-data/generative-apis/how-to/query-text-models/#querying-text-models-via-api) to query text models using Scaleway's Chat API.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  To go further, refer to the [Python code examples](/ai-data/generative-apis/how-to/query-text-models/#querying-text-models-via-api) to query text models using Scaleway's Chat API.
```

>   To go further, [find here Python code examples](/ai-data/generative-apis/how-to/query-text-models/#querying-text-models-via-api) to query text models using Scaleway's Chat API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  To go further, [refer to our Python code examples](/ai-data/generative-apis/how-to/query-text-models/#querying-text-models-via-api) to query text models using Scaleway's Chat API.
```

>   To go further, [find here Python code examples](/ai-data/generative-apis/how-to/query-text-models/#querying-text-models-via-api) to query text models using Scaleway's Chat API.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  Go further with [Python code examples](/ai-data/generative-apis/how-to/query-text-models/#querying-text-models-via-api) to query text models using Scaleway's Chat API.
```
